---
title: "CESR Proof Signatures"
abbrev: "CESR-PROOF"
docname: draft-pfeairheller-cesr-proof-latest
category: info

ipr: trust200902
area: TODO
workgroup: TODO Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
smart_quotes: no
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
  -
    name: Phil Feairheller
    organization: GLEIF
    email: Philip.Feairheller@gleif.org

normative:
  CESR:
    target: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ssmith-cesr/
    title: Composable Event Streaming Representation (CESR)
    author:
      ins: S. Smith
      name: Samuel M. Smith
      org: ProSapien LLC
    date: 2021

  SAID:
    target: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ssmith-said/
    title: Self-Addressing IDentifier (SAID)
    author:
      ins: S. Smith
      name: Samuel M. Smith
      org: ProSapien LLC
    date: 2021

informative:
  KERI:
    target: https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.02143
    title: Key Event Receipt Infrastructure (KERI)
    author:
      ins: S. Smith
      name: Samuel M. Smith
      org: ProSapien LLC
    date: 2021

  JSON:
    target: https://www.json.org/json-en.html
    title: JavaScript Object Notation Delimeters

  JSONPath:
    target: https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-goessner-dispatch-jsonpath-00.html
    title: JSONPath -- XPath for JSON

tags: IETF, CESR, SAID, KERI, ACDC

--- abstract

CESR Proof Signatures are an extension to the Composable Event Streaming Representation (CESR) that provide transposable cryptographic signature attachments on self-addressing data (SAD). A SAD (such as an Authentic Chained Data Container (ACDC) Verifiable Credential) may be signed with a CESR Proof Signature and streamed alongside any other CESR content.  In addition, a signed SAD can be embedded inside another SAD and the CESR proof signature attachment can be transposed to the outer SAD and streamed without losing any cryptographic integrity.

--- middle

# Introduction

Composable Event Streaming Representation (CESR) is a dual text-binary encoding format that has the unique property of text-binary concatenation composability. The CESR specification not only provides the definition of the streaming format but also the codes needed for creating and sharing all event types and signatures on all event types for the Key Event Receipt Infrastructure (KERI). While all KERI event messages are self-addressing data (SAD), there is a broad class of SADs that are not KERI events but that require signature attachments. ACDC Verifiable credentials fit into this class of SADs. With more complex data structures represented as SADs, such as verifiable credentials, there is a need to provide signature attachments on nested subsets of SADs. Similar to indices in indexed controller signatures in KERI that specify the location of the public key they represent, nested SAD signatures need a path mechanism to specify the exact location of the nested content that they are signing. CESR Proof Signatures provide this mechanism with the CESR SAD Path Language and new attachment codes, detailed in this specification.

## Streamable SADs
A primary goal of CESR Proof Signatures is to allow any signed self-addressing data (SAD) to be streamed inline with any other CESR content.  In support of that goal, CESR Proof Signatures leverages CESR attachments to define a signature scheme that can be attached to any SAD content serialized as JSON, MessagePack or CBOR.  Using this capability, SADs signed with CESR Proof Signatures can be streamed inline in either the text or binary domain alongside any other KERI event message over, for example TCP or UDP.  In addition, signed SADs can be transported via HTTP as a CESR HTTP Request (todo: reference needed).

## Nested Partial Signatures
Capabilities like blinded disclosure, selective disclosure and one-time use credentials require signatures on nested subsets of SADs.  CESR Proof Signatures can be used to sign as many portions of a SAD (including the entire SAD) whether the signed subsets are SADs , SAD references (described below) or the self-addressing identifer (SAID) of a SAD.  Selective disclosure can be accomplished when signatures are applied to multiple subsets of a SAD.  When using the data in a presentation, like a verifiable credential presentation, a selective subset signatures can be presented without revealing other portions of the original signed SAD.  When the signed content is a SAD reference, a blinded presentation is also possible to allow for receipts on a presentation that contains terms or conditions before the actual data is presented.  Finally, if a nonce field is added to a signed SAD (nested or otherwise), one-time use credentials can be generated by treating the SAD as a template and delivered alongside multiple nonces and signatures to allow for non-correlatable presentations of the same data.

## Transposable Signature Attachments

There are several events in KERI that can contain context specific embedded self-addressing data (SADs). Exchange events (`exn`) for peer-to-peer communication and Replay events (`rpy`) for responding to data requests as well as Expose events (`exp`) for providing anchored data are all examples of KERI events that contain embedded SADs as part of their payload. If the SAD payload for one of these event types is signed with a CESR attachment, the resulting structure is not embeddable in one of the mapping serializations (JSON, CBOR, MessagePack) supported by CESR. To solve this problem, CESR Proof Signatures are transposable in that an entire signature group on any given SAD can be transposed to attach to the end of an outer SAD without losing its meaning. This unique feature is provided by a root path designation in the outermost attachment code of any SAD signature group that can be updated to point to the embedding location of the outer SAD. Protocols for verifiable credential issuance and proof presentation can be defined using this capability to embed the same verifiable credential SAD at and location in an outer `exn` message as appropriate for the protocol without having to define a unique signature scheme for each protocol.


# CESR SAD Path Language

CESR Proof Signatures defines a SAD Path Language to be used in signature attachments for specifying the location of the SAD content within the signed SAD that a signature attachment is verifying. This path language has a more limited scope than alternatives like JSONPath and is therefore simpler and easier to encode in CESR signature attachments. SADs in CESR and therefore CESR Proof Signatures require static field ordering of all maps. The SAD path language takes advantage of this feature to allow for a base64 compatible syntax into SADs even when a SAD uses non-base64 compatible characters for field labels.

## Description and Usage

The SAD path language contains a single reserved character, the `-` (dash) character. Similar to the `/` (forward slack) character in URLs, the `-` in the SAD Path Language is the path separator between components of the path. The `-` was selected because it is a one of the valid base64 characters.

The simplest path in the SAD Path Language is a single `-` character representing the root path which specifies the top level of the SAD content.

Root Path
~~~
 -
~~~

After the root path, path components follow, delimited by the `-` character. Path components may be integer indices into field labels or arrays or may be full field labels. No wildcards are supported by the SAD Path Language

An example SAD Path using only labels that resolve to map contexts follows:

~~~
-a-personal
~~~

In addition, integers can be specified and their meaning is dependent on the context of the SAD.

~~~
-1-12-personal-0
~~~

The rules for a SAD Path Language processor are simple. If a path consists of only a single `-`, it represents the root of the SAD and therefore the entire SAD content. Following any `-` character is a path component that points to a field if the current context is a map in the SAD or is an index of an element if the current context is an array. It is an error for any sub-path to resolve to a value this is not a map or an array.  Any trailing `-` character in a SAD Path can be ignored.

The root context (after the initial `-`) is always a map. Therefore, the first path component represents a field of that map. The SAD is traversed following the path components as field labels or indexes in arrays until the end of the path is reached. The value at the end of the path is then returned as the resolution of the SAD Path. If the current context is a map and the path component is an integer, the path component represents an index into fields of the map. This feature takes advantage of the static field ordering of SADs and is used against any SAD that contains field labels that use non-base64 compatible characters or the `-` character. Any combination of integer and field label path components can be used when the current context is a map. All path components MUST be an integer when the current context is an array.

## CESR Encoding for SAD Path Language
SAD Paths are variable raw size primitives that require CESR variable size codes.  We will use the `A` small variable size code for SAD Paths which has 3 code entries being added to the Master Code Table, `4A##`, `5A##` and `6A##` for SAD Paths with 0 lead bytes, 1 lead byte and 2 lead bytes respecively.  This small variable side code is reserved for text values that only contain valid Base64 characters.  These codes are detailed in Table 2 below.  The selector not only encodes the table but also implicitly encodes the number of lead bytes. The variable size is measured in quadlets of 4 characters each in the T domain and equivalently in triplets of 3 bytes each in the B domain. Thus computing the number of characters when parsing or off-loading in the T domain means multiplying the variable size by 4. Computing the number of bytes when parsing or off-loading in the B domain means multiplying the variable size by 3. The two Base64 size characters provide value lengths in quadlets/triplets from 0 to 4095 (64**2 -1). This corresponds to path lengths of up to 16,380 characters (4095 * 4) or 12,285 bytes (4095 * 3).


## SAD Path Examples

This section provides some more examples for SAD Path expressions. The examples are based on Authentic Chained Data
Containers (ACDCs) representing verifiable credentials.

~~~json
{
  "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
  "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
  "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
  "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
  "a": {
    "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
    "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
    "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
    "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
    "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
    "personal": {
      "legalName": "John Doe",
      "home-city": "Durham"
    }
  },
  "p": [
    {
      "qualifiedIssuerCredential": {
        "d": "EIl3MORH3dCdoFOLe71iheqcywJcnjtJtQIYPvAu6DZA",
        "i": "Et2DOOu4ivLsjpv89vgv6auPntSLx4CvOhGUxMhxPS24"
      }
    },
    {
      "certifiedLender": {
        "d": "EglG9JLG6UhkLrrv012NPuLEc1F3ne5vPH_sHGP_QPN0",
        "i": "E8YrUcVIqrMtDJHMHDde7LHsrBOpvN38PLKe_JCDzVrA"
      }
    }
  ]
}
~~~

Figure 1. Example ACDC Credential SAD

The examples in Table 1 represent all the features of the SAD Path language when referring to the SAD in Figure 1. along with the CESR text encodeing.

|   SAD Path   | Result                            | CESR T Domain Encoding |
|:-------------|:----------------------------------|:------|
|  -           | The root of the SAD               | 6AABAAA- |
|  -a-personal | The personal map of the a field   | 4AADA-a-personal |
|  -4-5        | The personal map of the a field   | 4AAB-4-5 |
|  -4-5-legalName        | "John Doe"   | 5AAEAA-4-5-legalName |
|  -a-personal-1        | "Durham"   |  6AAEAAA-a-personal-1 |
|  -p-1        | The second element in the p array | 4AAB-p-1 |
|  -a-LEI     | "254900OPPU84GM83MG36" | 5AACAA-a-LEI |
| -p-0-0-d     | "EIl3MORH...6DZA" | 4AAC-p-0-0-d |
| -p-0-certifiedLender-i | "E8YrUcVI...zVrA" | 5AAGAA-p-0-certifiedLender-i |


# CESR Attachments

This specification adds 2 *Counter Four Character Codes* to the Master Code Table and 1 *Small Variable Raw Size Code Type* to the Master Code Table (which results in 3 new code entries.  The additions to the Master Code Table of CESR is shown below:

|   Code   | Description                                                                         | Code Length | Count or Index Length | Total Length |
|:--------:|:----------------------------------|:------------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
|          |                        **Counter Four Character Codes**                          |             |              |              |
|   -J##   | Count of attached qualified Base64 SAD path sig groups path+sig group (trans or non-trans)                       |      4      |       2      |       4      |
|   -K##   | Count of attached qualified Base64 SAD Path groups                    |      4      |       2      |       4      |
|          |                        **Small Variable Raw Size Code**                          |             |              |              |
|   4A##   | String Base64 Only with 0 Lead Bytes                                                  |      4      |       2      |       4      |
|   5A##   | String Base64 Only with 1 Lead Byte                                                   |      4      |       2      |       4      |
|   6A##   | String Base64 Only with 2 Lead Bytes                                                  |      4      |       2      |       4      |


## CESR Signature Attachments
CESR defines several counter codes for attaching signatures to  serialized CESR event messages.  For KERI event messages, the signatures in the attachments apply to the entire serialized content of the KERI event message.  As all KERI event messages are SADs, the same rules for signing a KERI event message applies to signing SADs for CESR Proof Signatures.  A brief review of CESR signatures for transferable and non-transferable identifiers follows.  In addition, signatures on nested content must be specified.

### Signing SAD Content
The rules for signing SAD content require using the serialized version of the SAD as determined by the KERI event message version.  For any KERI event message or ACDC verifiable credential, the version string as found in the `v` field of the message is used to determine the serialization of the SAD and will be one of JSON, CBOR or MessagePack.  All three serializations support static field ordering by insertion order which is required to ensure that the signature is applied to the content over the wire.

### Signatures with Non-Transferable Identifiers
Non-transferable identifiers only ever have one public key.  In addition, the identifier prefix is identical to the public key and therefore no KEL is required to validate the signature of a non-transferable identifier.  The attachment code for witness receipt couplets, used for CESR Proof Signatures,  takes this into account.  The four character couner code `-C##` is used for non-transferable identifiers and contains the signing identfier prefix and the signature.  Since the verification key is the identifier prefix and the identifier can not be rotated, all that is required to validate the signature is the identifier prefix, the content signed and the signature.

### Signatures with Transferable Identifiers
Transferable identifiers require full KEL resolution and verfication to determine the correct public key used to sign some content.  In addition, the attachment code used for transferable identifiers, `-F##` must specify the location in the KEL at which point the signature was generated.  To accomplish this, this counter code includes the identifier prefix, the sequence number of the event in the KEL, the digest of the event in the KEL and the indexed signatures (transferable identifiers support multiple public/private keys and require index signatures).  Using all the values, one can verify the signature(s) by retrieving the KEL of the identifier prefix and determine the key state at the sequence number along with validating the digest of the event against the actual event.  Then using the key(s) at the determined key state, validate the signature(s).


## Additional Count Codes
This specification adds two Counter Four Character Codes to the CESR Master Code Table for attaching and grouping transposable signatures on SAD and nested SAD content.  The first code (`-J##`) is reserved for attaching a SAD path and the associated signatures on the content at the resolution of the SAD Path (either a SAD or its associated SAID).  The second reserved code (`-K##`) is for grouping all SAD Path signature groups under a root path for a given SAD.  The root path in the second grouping code provides signature attachment transposability for embedding SAD content in other messages.

### SAD Path Signature Group
The SAD Path Signature Group provides a four character counter code, `-J##`, for attaching an encoded variable length SAD Path along with either transferable index signature groups or non-transferable identifer receipt couplets.  The SAD Path identifies the content that this attachment is signing.  The path must resolve to either a nested SAD (map) or a SAID (string) of an externally provided SAD within the context of the SAD and root path against which this attachment is applied.  Using the sample ACDC SAD above, the follow example shows a signature on the nested `personal` SAD signed by a transferable identifier using the transferable index signature group. The example is annotated with comments, spaces and line feeds for clarity.

~~~
-JAB              # SAD path signature group counter code 1 following the group
4AADA-a-personal  # encoded SAD path designation
-FAB     # Trans Indexed Sig Groups counter code 1 following group
E_T2_p83_gRSuAYvGhqV3S0JzYEF2dIa-OCPLbIhBO7Y    # trans prefix of signer for sigs
-EAB0AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAB    # sequence number of est event of signer's public keys for sigs
EwmQtlcszNoEIDfqD-Zih3N6o5B3humRKvBBln2juTEM      # digest of est event of signer's public keys for sigs
-AAD     # Controller Indexed Sigs counter code 3 following sigs
AA5267UlFg1jHee4Dauht77SzGl8WUC_0oimYG5If3SdIOSzWM8Qs9SFajAilQcozXJVnbkY5stG_K4NbKdNB4AQ         # sig 0
ABBgeqntZW3Gu4HL0h3odYz6LaZ_SMfmITL-Btoq_7OZFe3L16jmOe49Ur108wH7mnBaq2E_0U0N0c5vgrJtDpAQ    # sig 1
ACTD7NDX93ZGTkZBBuSeSGsAQ7u0hngpNTZTK_Um7rUZGnLRNJvo5oOnnC1J2iBQHuxoq8PyjdT3BHS2LiPrs2Cg  # sig 2
~~~

The next example demostrates the use of a non-transferable identifier to sign SAD content.  In this example, the entire nested SAD located at the `a` field is signed by the non-transferable identfier:

~~~
-JAB       # SAD path signature group counter code 1 following the group
5AABAA-a    # encoded SAD path designation
-CAB       # NonTrans witness receipt couplet
BmMfUwIOywRkyc5GyQXfgDA4UOAMvjvnXcaK9G939ArM  # non-trans prefix of signer of sig
0BT7b5PzUBmts-lblgOBzdThIQjKCbq8gMinhymgr4_dD0JyfN6CjZhsOqqUYFmRhABQ-vPywggLATxBDnqQ3aBg  # sig
~~~

### SAD Path Groups
The SAD Path Group provides a four character counter code, `-K##`, for attaching encoded variable length **root** SAD Path along with 1 or more SAD Path Signature Groups.  The root SAD Path identifies the root context against which the paths in all included SAD Path Signature Groups are resolved.  When parsing a SAD Path Group, if the root path is the single `-` character, all SAD paths are treated as absolute paths.  Otherwise, the root path is prepended to the SAD paths in each of the SAD Path Signature Groups.  Given the following snippet of a SAD Path Group:

~~~
-KAB6AABAAA--JAB5AABAA-a...
~~~

The root path is the single `-` character meaning that all subsequent SAD Paths are absolute and therefore the first path is resolved as the `a` field of the root map of the SAD as seen in the following example:

~~~json
{
  "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
  "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
  "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
  "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
  "a": {   // SIGNATURE TARGET OF SAD PATH GROUP
    "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
    "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
    "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
    "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
    "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
    "personal": {
      "legalName": "John Doe",
      "home-city": "Durham"
    }
  }
~~~


#### Transposable Signature Attachments
To support nesting of signed SAD content in other SAD content the root path of SAD Path Groups provides transposability of CESR SAD signatures such that the entire SAD Path Group attachment can be transposed to the surrounding SAD by updating the root path to indicate the new location  Extending the sample above, the SAD content is now embedded in a KERI `exn` event message as follows:


~~~json
{
  "v": "KERI10JSON00011c_",
  "t": "exn",
  "dt": "2020-08-22T17:50:12.988921+00:00"
  "r": "/credential/apply"
  "a": {
    "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
    "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
    "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
    "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
    "a": {   // SIGNATURE TARGET OF TRANSPOSED SAD PATH GROUP
      "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
      "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
      "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
      "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
      "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
      "personal": {
        "legalName": "John Doe",
        "home-city": "Durham"
      }
    }
  }
~~~

The same signature gets transposed to the outer `exn` SAD by updating the root path of the `-K##` attachment:

~~~
-KAB5AABAA-a-JAB5AABAA-a...
~~~

Now the SAD Path of the first signed SAD content resolves to the `a` field of the `a` field of the streamed `exn` message


## Small Variable Raw Size SAD Path Code
The small variable raw side code reserved for SAD Path encoding is `A` which results in the addition of 3 entries (`4A##`, `5A##` and `6A##`) in the Master Code Table for each lead byte configuration.  These codes and their use are discussed in detail in [CESR Encoding for SAD Path Language]().


# Nested Partial Signatures
Additional signatures on nested content can be included in a SAD Path Group and are applied to the serialized data at the resolution of a SAD path in a SAD.  Signatures can be applied to a reference to a SAD or an entire nested SAD.  A reference to a SAD is a nested map containing only the SAID (`d`) and the SAID of the schema of the SAD (`s`).  When verifying a CESR Proof Signature, the content at the resolution of the SAD path is the data that was signed.  The choice to sign a reference to a SAD or the full SAD effects how the data may be used in presentations and the rules for verifying the signature.


## Signing Nested SADs
When signing nested SAD content, the serialization used at the time of signing is the only serialization that can be used when presenting the signed data.  When transposing the signatures and nesting the signed data, the enveloping SAD must use the same serialization that was used to create the signatures.  This is to ensure that all signatures apply to the data over the wire and not a transformation of that data.  The serialization can be determined from the version field (`v`) of the nested SAD or any parent of the nested SAD as they are guaranteed to be identical.  Consider the following ACDC Credential SAD:




```json
{
  "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
  "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
  "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
  "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
  "a": {   // SIGNATURE TARGET OF SAD PATH GROUP
    "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
    "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
    "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
    "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
    "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
    "personal": {
      "d": "E2X8OLaLnM0XRQEYgM5UV3bZmWg3UUn7CP4SoKkvsl-s",
        "first": "John",
        "last": "Doe"
    }
  }
}
```

To sign the SAD located at the path `-a`, JSON serialization would be used because the SAD at that path does not have a version field so the version field of its parent is used.  The serialization rules (spacing, field ordering, etc) for a SAD would be used for the SAD and the serialization type and the signature would be applied to the bytes of the JSON for that map.  Any presentation of the signed data must always include the fully nested SAD.  The only valid nesting of this credential would be as follows:

~~~json
{
  "v": "KERI10JSON00011c_",
  "t": "exn",
  "dt": "2020-08-22T17:50:12.988921+00:00"
  "r": "/credential/apply"
  "a": {
    "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
    "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
    "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
    "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
    "a": {   // FULL SAD MUST BE PRESENT
      "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
      "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
      "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
      "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
      "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
      "legalName": {
        "d": "E2X8OLaLnM0XRQEYgM5UV3bZmWg3UUn7CP4SoKkvsl-s",
        "first": "John",
        "last": "Doe"
      }
    }
  }
}
~~~


## Signing SAD References
Applying partial signatures to SAD references in a verifiable credential enables blinded disclosure of the signed commitment to the data of the credential as well as selective disclosure of the individual sections of the credential.  Consider the following theoretical credential (we are calling this credential theoretical because it would never existing fully in this state):


~~~json
{
    "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
    "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
    "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
    "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
    "a": {
      "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
      "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
      "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
      "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
      "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
      "legalName": {
        "d": "E2X8OLaLnM0XRQEYgM5UV3bZmWg3UUn7CP4SoKkvsl-s",
        "s": "EUrVwESb1zcBINdcWAXvHnR4e0efxrm-_6o_oQ5HDKag",
        "n": "sKHtYSiCdlibuLDS2PTJg1AZXtPhaySZ9O3DoKrRXWY",
        "first": "John",
        "last": "Doe"
      },
      "address": {
        "d": "E-0luqYSg6cPcMFmhiAz8VBQObZLmTQPrgsr7Z1j6CA4",
        "s": "EeAnhZeku1mUTFt5EMczSW3M0kx2E9LjXbqL7JIi_m14",
        "n": "XiSoVDNvqV8ldofPyTVqQ-EtVPlkIIQTln9Ai0yI05M",
        "street": "123 Main St",
        "city": "Salt Lake City",
        "state": "Utah"
      },
      "phone": {
        "d": "E6lty8H2sA_1acq8zg89_kqF194DbF1cDpwA7UPtwjPQ",
        "s": "ERyBPp4rDxbVCQ3cNTSYdmBjF7bD5_ChistY-ZRm_cLc",
        "n": "_XKNVntbcIjp12DmsAGhv-R7JRwuzjD6KCHC7Fw3zvU"
        "mobile": "555-121-3434"
      }
    }
  }
}
~~~

The three nested blocks of the `a` block `legalName`, `address` and `phone` contain all the fields necessary to create a credential with partial SAD signatures over the values in those three blocks.  Each nested SAD MUST be a SAD (contain SAID field, `d` in our example), must have a field that references the SAID of the JSON Schema defined for the SAD, `s` in our example and must contain a random nonce field, `n` in our example.    With these fields in place in each of the nested SADs, the signed credential would be as follows:

~~~json
{
   "v": "ACDC10JSON00011c_",
   "d": "EBdXt3gIXOf2BBWNHdSXCJnFJL5OuQPyM5K0neuniccM",
   "i": "EmkPreYpZfFk66jpf3uFv7vklXKhzBrAqjsKAn2EDIPM",
   "s": "E46jrVPTzlSkUPqGGeIZ8a8FWS7a6s4reAXRZOkogZ2A",
   "a": {
     "d": "EgveY4-9XgOcLxUderzwLIr9Bf7V_NHwY1lkFrn9y2PY",
     "i": "EQzFVaMasUf4cZZBKA0pUbRc9T8yUXRFLyM1JDASYqAA",
     "dt": "2021-06-09T17:35:54.169967+00:00",
     "ri": "EymRy7xMwsxUelUauaXtMxTfPAMPAI6FkekwlOjkggt",
     "LEI": "254900OPPU84GM83MG36",
     "legalName": {
       "d": "E2X8OLaLnM0XRQEYgM5UV3bZmWg3UUn7CP4SoKkvsl-s",
       "s": "EUrVwESb1zcBINdcWAXvHnR4e0efxrm-_6o_oQ5HDKag"
     }
     "address": {
       "d": "E-0luqYSg6cPcMFmhiAz8VBQObZLmTQPrgsr7Z1j6CA4",
       "s": "EeAnhZeku1mUTFt5EMczSW3M0kx2E9LjXbqL7JIi_m14"
     }
     "phone": {
       "d": "E6lty8H2sA_1acq8zg89_kqF194DbF1cDpwA7UPtwjPQ",
       "s": "ERyBPp4rDxbVCQ3cNTSYdmBjF7bD5_ChistY-ZRm_cLc"
     }
   }
}
~~~

Each of the nested SADs have been replaced with SAD references and 4 signatures are supplied, a signature at the top level and one each for the SAD reference now at `legalName`, `address` and `phone`.  It is important to note that this version of the credential is the one issued to the holder and the signature over the entire credential is on the serialized data of this version of the credential.  The full SAD data of the three nested blocks would be delivered out of band from the signed credential.  The top level schema would describe the blocks as shown in the signed credential but also specify the exact value for each of the schema SAIDs in the signed SAD references.  The credential signature becomes a cryptographic commitment to the contents of the overall credential as well as the content of each of the block yet will still validate the presented credential.


When performing a blinded presentation, the entire signed credential would be presented, proving cryptographically the authenticity of the data without revealing the data of the three nested SAD references.  This technique could be useful for enforcing terms and conditions or non-disclosure agrees on the nested data if those terms were included in the signed credential and a receipt was required from the recipient of the data before the data in the nested SADs was revealed.  The recipient would be able to check the schema to ensure that the data in the nested SAD will conform to agreed upon data because providing a receipt without that data being revealed.

Selective disclosure is accomplished by providing only the signatures of the SAD references that will be revealed out of band.  The recipient of the data can verify the signatures on the entire credential and the signatures on the SAD references they received while not seeing any data on the nested portions not being revealed.



# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Security Considerations

TODO Security

# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

Dr Sam Smith, Kevin Griffin and the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF)
